The Boscoist Manifesto
The Neo-Technologism Problem
Let's start by defining neo-technologism. Technologism is the “Belief in the power of technology to shape or improve human society.” Neo-technologism describes the idea that commodifying forces hold the power to shape and govern human society,


Technology is deeply integrated into our current society. A network exists which is good, a network of people and computers and systems and communications, that empowers each individual in the network while equally elevating and providing opportunities to these individuals. This self correcting cybernetics system of people and computers rolls forward, powered by a feedback loop. The circumstances of the environment dictate actions from the individuals. The individual's actions change the environment. The new environment dictates different actions from individuals. 


However, this loop is prone to corruption. This system is sensitive to any changes, and while self balancing, outside forces can be injected, changing the cycle, and forcing The System to move in a different direction, snowballing ever larger. This inertia continues to carry The System, and it becomes harder and harder to stop. These insidious and sometimes innocuous forces start to dominate The System, and everything that happens within gets filtered through them. And through this filtering they start to gain control. Giving positive reinforcements to certain ways of speaking make these the new norm, the new mundane. Ideas that are foreign to the filter get left out. This does not refer to opposing ideas, which have their place as inspirers of debate or objects of ridicule. This is ideas that do not match The System’s rules, and can’t be filtered. And any ideas that can make it through, get absorbed into the filter, becoming agents of profitability. Every ideology eventually gets absorbed, including this one. And as these ideas get absorbed, they get corrupted and commodified, and the revolution collapses. The wildness of discourse and the fires of revolution get tamed and doused. Anything that does not conform to systemic morality and can’t be absorbed is condemned as malicious or cheerily dismissed.


So these forces gain control, and the decentralized nature of the technological citizenry provided by computing is undermined. These large institutions of hierarchy, of government, religion, mass media, no longer control the masses. Freedom came and went. This ruling power has been taken by the forces of innocuous commodification, snowballing to extremes. And the power structures and hierarchy have returned. And this has become the norm, the inescapably banal and mundane. And we want it that way. We want banality. It makes the other digestible, normal, less scary and foreign. And institutes want banality. It allows them to deploy anything, and be seen as digestible, normal, less scary. The interface collapses and everything is normal.






The Boscoist Truths
1. The inertia driven feedback loop of The System forever moves forward. Take an action, change the environment, take another action based on the new environment.
   1. Any kind of input into The System gets looped as feedback into The System, and stays in The System, forcing the trajectory.
   2. We are slaves to inertia. Whatever direction a system is moving in, the nodes within are doomed to continue towards in aid to The System.
2. The concept of the Randian Hero: you should not influence, nor let others influence you. Work towards your best self, and use technology as a tool to empower your autonomy and abilities.
3. The pure form of technology gives ultimate power and agency to the common people.
4. Every system is an electrical circuit, and every circuit emulates the human mind. Every system is, by definition, linked. Inputs, outputs, relationships, and computation are the main ingredients of a system’s entities.
5. Computation processes and interfaces induce no disruption anymore. The transition from 3d to screen is as natural as anything else to the modern man. This technological scape is not  a separate reality, but intrinsically linked to our own.
6. Co-opting network utopias is done by radical free thinkers. Co-opting network utopias is done by capitalists tryna make money.
7. Any value put into a system propagates and spirals, snowballing out of control, backed by momentum.
8. Flat hierarchies corrupt easily. We see this in communist countries, we see this in how the flat tech world has turned into being ruled by multinational tech corporations.


Habits of a Boscoist
* Boscoists provide fake data whenever possible
* Boscoists connect to unsecure networks and visit sites with no https
* Boscoists exhibit art at internet cafes
* Etc


























The Goals of Boscoism
1. Embrace flat hierarchies
2. Be a Technological Scofflaw
3. Embrace the contradicting duality of the self appointed hero, and the selfless network of individuals
4. Relics of the new aesthetics can and should be brought forward, and contrasted with the banal.
5. Banality is good and evil. Use it to your advantage, and condemn its use for advantages.
6. The pure form of technology gives ultimate power and agency to the common people.
7. Computers are senseless calculators, nothing more. Do not glorify the tool, but hold it with reverence.
8. Expose the interface
9. Decentralize. Do not centralize others, and do not let yourself be centralized.
10. Tech is built on counterculture and the rebellious. Embrace open source. Do not permit tyranny or monopolies.
11. Make up a word if you need to. Language has too much power. 
12. Enact an equal and imposing force to counteract the inertia of The System. Do not let yourself be caught up in its movement
13. Acknowledge the biases inherent in the technology being used
14. Understand the power struggle and codependency of the social, economical, natural and technological systems
15. Create power structures that are intrinsically safe rather than enforceably safe
16. Expose silent influences
17. Do not commodify resources. (this is not an attack on capitalism)
18. The needs of the network outweigh the needs of the node. The needs of the node dictate the needs of the network.
19. Transparency. Don't hide processes unless you have something to hide. It is inherently shifty. Bring these digital processes (hidden) to the physical (shown).
20. Filtering is a form of enforcing hierarchies. Don't tame the wild, let the ecosystem balance itself.
21. Transcode. Translate the layers of computing to the layers of culture
22. This movement will one day become a part of The System it is trying to radicalize.














Bosconian Laws of Physics
Inertia
        A cybernetic law. A system in motion stays in motion, and a system at rest stays at rest, unless acted upon by an external force.


Entropy
        Unless all processes in The System are reversible, the state of disorder, randomness, or uncertainty within The System cannot decrease, and will arrive at a cybernetic equilibrium, where the state of disorder, randomness, or uncertainty is at its highest.




Further notes regarding Boscoism
* Boscoism embraces competing contradictions. Allow conflicting ideas to exist as equals. No such thing as mutually exclusive.
* Technology and media is the mythological Muse; the technology evokes an idea into the person, who creates thoughts of their own based on this, and then puts them out to the world.




































Glossary of Boscoist terms
The System
        The large interlinking network of all systems, observable and unobservable. Every entity is a part of The System, can influence The System, and is influenced by The System.


Randian hero
	An entity with a heroic attitude. Act’s in their own self interest, and seeks both intrinsic and extrinsic improval. Is rational, and moves towards their highest purpose. Uses all tools at their disposal to improve their lot in life. But does not enforce their will on others.


Commodification
        The process of turning entity runoff (thoughts, creativity, data trails) into a value add for The System.


Pure Form of Technology
        The uncorrupted digital network, which facilitates the exchange of information and resources. The System at rest, at conception.


Network Utopias
        Subsystems which follow the principles the network was built on. Of freedom, decentralization, and common empowerment. This includes systems like the pirating community, platforms for self publishing like bandcamp or itch.io (minus the leves paid).


Boscoist
        An entity practicing Boscoism.


Boscoesque
        Carrying the traits of Boscoism.


Boscify
        To turn something into a Boscoist entity.


Boscomorphasis
        The process of Boscification.


Boscoid
	An entity carrying the traits of Boscoism.


Boscapo
	Enforcers of Boscoism.


Boscability
	How susceptible something is to Boscification.


Boscomancy
        The artistic practice of applying Boscoism to the world.